# Greedy Motif Search:
- **Greedy Algorithms**: selects the most attractive alternative at each iteration
    - Basically chess where you only look at one step ahead only. (leads to easy loss)
    - fast heuristics trading accuracy for speed to find approximate solution.
- So we shall take greedy approach for motif finding
    - we can see each column of Profil(Motifs) as probabilities and apply it to randomly generate a k-mer
    - aka: generate a random string based on profile matrix by selecting i-th nucleotide in string 
        - with probability corresponding to nucleotide in ith column of profile matrix
    - Has higher probability if more similar to consensus string of profile
    - implemented a simple version for the exercise break: `bi_4_exercistBreak.py`
        - note i mispelled, but oh well.
- Given a profile matrix, we can compute probability of every k-mer in a string Text
    - to find **Profile-most probable k-mer**.. wow that's a mouthful
    - the k-mer most likely to have been generated by Profile among all k-mers in Text
    - Profile-most Probable k-mer Problem: Find a Profile-most probable k-mer in a string. 
        - Input: A string Text, an integer k, and a 4 x k matrix Profile.
        - Output: A Profile-most probable k-mer in Text.
        - code is found in `bi_4_profileMostProbable.py`
- Greedy motif search alg. begins by setting BestMotifs = 1st k-mer from each string in DNA
    - goes through all possible k-mers from each string and then checks if outscores current best scoring motifs

___

## Motifs in tuberculosis
- **tuberculosis(TB)**: infectious disease caused by *Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB)* 
    - sucessful because can persist in humans for decades without causing disease.
    - 1/3rd of the world population has latent MTB infections
    - So scientists are interested in finding out what makes a disease latent and how it activates within host
    - They must have a way to shut down expression of most genes and stay dormant
        - **sporulation**: hibernation in bacteria
            - many bacteria form protective and metabolically dormant sports that can survive in tough conditions
            - allows to persist until conditions improve.
    - **hypoxia**: oxygen shortage associated with latent forms of TB
        - MTB dormant in low oxygen environment 
        - Important identify MTB genes responsible for development of latent state under hypnoxic conditions
            - Goal: find **master regulator** (transcription factor) that senses shortage of oxygen 
                - that affects expressions of many genes, allowing MTB to adapt
    - 2003, found the **dormancy survival regulator (DosR)**
        - transcription factor regulate genes whose expressions change under hypnoxic conditions
        - biologists performed a DNA array experiment and found 25 genes whose expressions changed dramatically

___

## Analyzing greedy motif finding
- runs fast trading accuracy for speed
    - however if ran on on the Subtle Motif Dataset, GreedyMotifSearch returns the 15-mer "gtAAAtAgaGatGtG" (total score: 58), which varies greatly from the true implanted motif "AAAAAAAAGGGGGGG".
    - zeroes in the profile matrix is a persistent problem
    